GitHub Actions migration (#14)
NethServer/nethserver-makerpms: README.rst

Building RPMs on github.com
------------------------------

`github.com <https://github.com/features/actions>`_ automatically builds RPMs and uploads
them to ``packages.nethserver.org``, if configured with enough environment variables
and upload secrets.

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To automate the RPM build process using GitHub

* create a ``.github/workflows/make-rpms.yml`` file inside the source code repository hosted on
  GitHub.

> * the repository must have builds enabled and upload secrets properly set up, if the repo is inside Nethserver org, everything is already set up (as long as you have write access to the repo).

Reviewer: we can also add that the organization admin must allow access to relative the organization's secrets from the package repository.

  Contact the organization maintainer on `community.nethserver.org <https://community.nethserver.org>`_ for help.

This is an example of ``.github/workflows/make-rpms.yml`` contents: ::

  name: Make RPMs
  on:
    push:
      branches:
        - master
        - main
    pull_request:
  jobs:
    make-rpm:
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      env:
        DEST_ID: core
        NSVER: 7
        DOCKER_IMAGE: nethserver/makerpms:7
      steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v3
          with:
            fetch-depth: 0
            ref: ${{ github.head_ref }}
        - name: Generate .env file
          run: |

>             cat .env < EOF

Reviewer 2: Fix redirections syntax

```suggestion
            cat > .env <<EOF
```

              SECRET=${{ secrets.secret }}
              SECRET_URL=${{ secrets.secret_url }}
              AUTOBUILD_SECRET=${{ secrets.autobuild_secret }}
              AUTOBUILD_SECRET_URL=${{ secrets.autobuild_secret_url }}
            EOF
        - name: Run prep-sources if present.
          run: if test -f "prep-sources"; then ./prep-sources; fi
        - name: Build RPM and publish
          run: |
            echo "Starting build..."
            docker run --name makerpms \
              --env-file .env \
              --hostname $GITHUB_RUN_ID-$GITHUB_RUN_NUMBER.nethserver.org \
              --volume $PWD:/srv/makerpms/src:ro \
               ${{ env.docker_image }} \
              makerpms-github -s *.spec
            echo "Build succesful."
            if [[ "${{ secrets.endpoints_pack }}" && "${{ secrets.secret }}" ]]; then
              echo "Publish configuration exists, pushing package to repo..."
              docker commit makerpms nethserver/build
              docker run \
                --env-file .env \
                nethserver/build \
                uploadrpms-github
              echo "Publish complete."
            fi
            rm .env

Usage
^^^^^

> Travis CI builds are triggered automatically when:

Reviewer 2: It seems there are still some `travis` to search and replace in this file, like this one.

.. rubric:: References

.. [#Podman] Podman is a daemonless Linux container engine. https://podman.io/

> .. [#Autobuild] Is a particular kind of repository in ``packages.nethserver.org`` that hosts the rpms builded automatically from github.com/features/actions. http://packages.nethserver.org/nethserver/7.4.1708/autobuild/x86_64/Packages/
> .. [#Testing] Is a repository in ``packages.nethserver.org`` that hosts the rpms builded automatically from github.com/features/actions started form official ``nethserver`` github repository. http://packages.nethserver.org/nethserver/7.4.1708/testing/x86_64/Packages/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. [#Autobuild] Is a particular kind of repository in ``packages.nethserver.org`` that hosts the rpms builded automatically from github.com/features/actions. http://packages.nethserver.org/nethserver/7.9.2009/autobuild/x86_64/Packages/
.. [#Testing] Is a repository in ``packages.nethserver.org`` that hosts the rpms builded automatically from github.com/features/actions started form official ``nethserver`` github repository. http://packages.nethserver.org/nethserver/7.9.2009/testing/x86_64/Packages/
```
